cephfs: add command "ceph fs swap" (#50212)
ceph/ceph: doc/cephfs/administration.rst

to the new name. Any on-going operations of the clients using these IDs may be
disrupted. Mirroring is expected to be disabled on the file system.

::

>     fs swap <fs1-name> <fs2-name> [--swap-fscids] [--yes-i-really-mean-it]

Reviewer: Isn't this `ceph fs swap ...`?

Author: We don't write in `ceph` in CephFS commands in this doc.

Reviewer: really! wow.

Reviewer 2: That's weird and should be fixed (not in this PR).

Swaps names of two Ceph file sytems and updates the application tags on all

> pools of both FSs accordingly. Passing ``swap-fscids`` swaps FSCIDs as well.

Reviewer 2: > Passing ``swap-fscids`` swaps FSCIDs as well.

We should explain why that's an option and why it's dangerous. (Hint: any tool only tracking the fscid may become confused. CSI requires the FSCID to be preserved.)

Reviewer 2: ping @rishabh-d-dave

> Mirroring should be disabled on both the FSs. CephX IDs needs to reauthorized

Reviewer 2: > Mirroring should be disabled on both the FSs.

Why? (explain!)

Author: if you could add a suggestion (about explanation you want to see) along, we just might be done in one less cycle of PR review. :)

Reviewer 2: I believe it's because mirroring uses the fscid. Ramana discovered this but may not have left an explanation in the docs for `fs rename`.

Reviewer: I had suggested @ajarr that file system mirroring should be disabled before renaming a file system. The same explanation applies here as well.

Reviewer: So, the check needs to be done before we initiate file system mirroring and needs to be updated in the docs.

Author: > So, the check needs to be done before we initiate file system mirroring and needs to be updated in the docs.

I get that but can you elaborate on the part why this is needed? Patrick wants us to add that to the doc.

Reviewer: The cephfs-mirror daemon uses fscid internally and changing the fscid without the mirror daemon knowing could result in undefined behaviour.

Author: > The cephfs-mirror daemon uses fscid internally and changing the fscid without the mirror daemon knowing could result in undefined behaviour.

Got it. Thank you so much!

Reviewer 2: Uh, please add the explanation to the docs!!

Author: Yep.

> accordingly. On-going operations using these IDs may be disrupted.

Reviewer 2: Also why

Author: Why for? "CephX IDs needs to reauthroized"?

Reviewer 2: Yes. If the `fs rename` docs explain, refer to that. Otherwise both should reference some explanation.

Reviewer 2: ping

Reviewer 3: For something like this should we also give a warning or hint after the `fs swap` succeeding ?

to the new name. Any on-going operations of the clients using these IDs may be
disrupted. Mirroring is expected to be disabled on the file system.

::

    fs swap <fs1-name> <fs1_id> <fs2-name> <fs2_id> [--swap-fscids=yes|no] [--yes-i-really-mean-it]

> Swaps names of two Ceph file sytems and updates the application tags on all

Reviewer 2: List requirements:

- all mds down (use `ceph fs fail`)
- ... ?

Author: Right, added.

pools of both FSs accordingly. Certain tools that track FCIDs of file systems
besides the FS name might get confused due to this operation. For such a

> case, option ``--swap-fscids`` has been provided. It swaps FSCIDs as well.

Author: This sounds strange to me ` required option ``--swap-fscids`` has been provided`. Maybe ` option ``--swap-fscids`` has been provided, which is an mandatory option.`

> case, option ``--swap-fscids`` has been provided. It swaps FSCIDs as well.

Author: I don't if you have read above comment but since we've made this change in a different comment thread, I am marking this as resolved.

to the new name. Any on-going operations of the clients using these IDs may be
disrupted. Mirroring is expected to be disabled on the file system.

::

    fs swap <fs1-name> <fs1_id> <fs2-name> <fs2_id> [--swap-fscids=yes|no] [--yes-i-really-mean-it]

> Swaps names of two Ceph file sytems and updates the application tags on all
> pools of both FSs accordingly. Certain tools that track FSCIDs of the file
> systems, besides the FS names, might get confused due to this operation. For
> such a case, required option ``--swap-fscids`` has been provided. It swaps
> FSCIDs as well. Before the swap, mirroring should be disabled on both the FS
> (because the cephfs-mirror daemon uses the fscid internally and changing it
> while the daemon is running could result in undefined behaviour), both CephFSs
> should be offline and option ``refuse_client_sessions`` must be set for both
> the CephFS. After the swap, CephX IDs may need to be reauthorized and CephFS,
> if left mounted during the swap, will need to be re-mounted. During the swap,
> on-going operations using these IDs may get disrupted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Swaps names of two Ceph file sytems and updates the application tags on all
pools of both FSs accordingly. Certain tools that track FSCIDs of the file
systems, besides the FS names, might get confused due to this operation. For
this reason, a mandatory option ``--swap-fscids`` must indicate whether to also swap the FSCIDs. Before the swap, mirroring should be disabled on both the FS
(because the cephfs-mirror daemon uses the fscid internally and changing it
while the daemon is running could result in undefined behaviour). Both FSs
should be offline ("up" ranks is empty) and the file system flag ``refuse_client_sessions`` must be set for both
FS.

The function of this API is to facilitate disaster recovery where a new file system reconstructed from the previous one is ready to take over for the possibly damaged file system. Instead of two `fs rename` operations, the operator can use a swap so there is no FSMap epoch where the primary (or production) named file system does not exist. This is important when Ceph is monitored by automatic storage operators like (Rook) which try to reconcile the storage system continuously. That operator may attempt to recreate the file system as soon as it is seen to not exist.

After the swap, CephX credentials may need to be reauthorized if existing mounts should "follow" the old file system to its new name. Generally, for disaster recovery, its desirable for the existing mounts to continue using the same file system name.

Any active file system mounts for either FS must remount. Existing unflushed operations will be lost.

When it is judged that one of the swapped file systems is ready for clients::

..bash:
    ceph fs set <fs> joinable true
    ceph fs set <fs> refuse_client_sessions false
    
Keep in mind that one of the swapped file systems may be left offline for future analysis if doing a disaster recovery swap.
```

Author: Done.

> on-going operations using these IDs may get disrupted.

Author: Done.
